[MUSIC]
>> Speaker 2: I'm kinda interested in more
like the big picture for React Native and
history with React.
So I'm just wondering,
how is Facebook involved and
what's the big picture surrounding these
technologies of React and React Native?
>> Scott Moss: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Who's involved and all that?
>> Scott Moss: So Facebook made React and
they also made React Native.
So React was their solution for
their web problems that they
were facing on Facebook.
They needed something fast so
they made React.
A few years later, they were like, wait,
you know what, React is actually really
cool how to make components, what if
we could make mobile UIs like that too?
That would be great but
we want them to be native.
So they made React Native for iOS,
which just took the syntax of making
components and converted it over to iOS.
And they built their Facebook Ads
app with it or Facebook Groups.
One of those apps they built with
React Native, so they're all behind it.
It's their baby.
It's open source though,
anybody can contribute to it.
But most of the heavy hitters
on React are at Facebook, and
if not they're probably trying
to hire them right now.
Like the guy who made Redux,
they hired him.
Like come over here,
come over here and work with us.
So yeah, it's all Facebook's thing,
I think the big picture is they want
to spread this React ecosystem.
They are truly invested in how
React builds components, and
they think it's the best way out there.
And they want to get it available
on every platform possible, and
it's a really good way
to build applications.
A lot of frameworks today
are influenced by React,
like Angular 2 is heavily
influenced by React.
React came out with this virtual
DOM thing and changed the game, and
people were just like wow, why did we
not think of that, that's amazing.
So they're just trying to get that
on many places as possible, and
Facebook tried to do the hybrid
web approach before and
Mark Zuckerberg was like no,
this is actually horrible.
So they wanted go back to native and
this is what their solution was.
So the big picture is, let's get React
to be the universal language for
building UIs,
that what they're trying to do.
>> Speaker 2: So would you call React and
Angular competitors?
>> Scott Moss: Actually,
I wouldn't say they're competitors because
they actually work together pretty well.
They meet all the time and
they learn from each other.
But you could, actually Angular is more
of a platform than it is a framework,
whereas React is more like, here's
a view library, create some components.
Angular is like you can create your
components, here's your HTTP library,
here's your testing framework,
here's every single thing else you need.
You don't have to install anything,
here's your animations.
What else do you need?
We have it.
Whereas React is not that,
it’s just a view library.
So Angular to me, Angular 2 at least,
to me is more like React Native.
Whereas React Native is a platform,
it gives you everything,
Angular 2 is like that,
it's a platform that gives you everything.
Whereas React for the web is actually
just more like a library to me.
It's just like here's
a way to write components,
figure everything else out yourself.
And that's it.
Yeah.
>> Scott Moss: Anything else?
>> Scott Moss: No, anything else, so
was this stuff pretty simple today,
as far as like the components,
React Native?
People who knew React, was it pretty
simple coming in to just doing this or
was it like wow,
this is completely different than React?
>> Speaker 2: I think it's a game changer.
I think if you wanted to,
you could write an app a day.
>> Scott Moss: Exactly, it's again, when I
first started writing native, I was like,
I didn't believe it.
I thought,
I was like something's not right.
Like this isn't happening,
I didn't just make this.
It felt weird.
I thought it was like a cat like
I'm waiting for them to say, but
you can't publish these apps on apps.org
cuz they won't, I was waiting for
them to say something like that but
no, it's really that simple.
>> Speaker 2: And the legitimacy there is
like that, yeah, Facebook Ads Manager and
some big Facebook apps
are actually on React Native and
they've been in React Native for
a long time.
So if they would have hit major hurdles,
they would have rolled it back.
>> Scott Moss: Exactly.
>> Speaker 2: And bring something
different but they're still on it for
quite a while.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, that's definitely the
big thing, knowing that a big company like
Facebook is using this in
production themselves is like whoa,
okay, this is actually something and
they've been doing it for a while.
Actually, if you go look
at their showcase page,
there are tons of actually really good
apps on the React Native Showcase,
some really, really, really, really
good stuff for some top name companies.
So here's all the Facebook stuff.
These are all really good.
There's actually
a tutorial how to do this.
There's a virtual reality
app built in React Native.
So this shows you what's possible there.
SoundCloud.
There was actually this one that does,
yeah,
this one right here which I
was really impressed by which
does Snapchat-like filters and
stuff, and this is in React Native.
So they had to use Web GL
to do this stuff but
still, like amazing, in React Native, wow.
Okay, that's pretty.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah,
there was like Web GL bindings.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah,
they have Web GL bindings and
stuff where you can really do
everything in React Native.
>> Speaker 3: Would that be in
a web view or is it in some?
>> Scott Moss: No, no, it's native.
>> Speaker 2: It's native.
>> Scott Moss: It's native, yeah,
they got the native GL bindings.
>> Speaker 2: Open GL, I'm sorry.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, Open GL, yeah, yeah.
Open GL, yeah.
>> Speaker 2: So
it will use the virtual DOM kind of
thing approach with Web GL objects or
components.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah.
So it's pretty legit.
>> Speaker 3: So would something
like 3JS be able to wrap that or.
>> Scott Moss: Actually, I'll show you.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, 3 is Web GL so
that would be in a web view.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: But yeah,
Open GL, React Native so.
>> Scott Moss: So this one.
>> Scott Moss: And this is all just the,
he's doing filters right here,
it's ridiculous.
And it's all just React Native.
So, yeah, stuff like this is just
like what, what, this is crazy.
But yeah, they got a lot of
cool stuff on the showcase.
Now a lot of these actually, some of them
are open source, you can go look like,
the Facebook team actually
open sourced its F8 app,
you can go look at the source code.
I actually learned a lot about
React Native by looking at this code,
cuz this code was written by
the people who made React Native,
so they knew all types of stuff that
I didn't know about, really good.